.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii rando.1
.\"
.TH rando 1 "2017-07-03" "Rando 1.0"
.SH NAME
rando \- generate random strings
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR "rando " "[" "-a"
.I ALPHA
.RB "] [" "-c"
.IR COUNT "] "
.RB "[" "-h" "]"
.I LENGTH
.SH DESCRIPTION
Generates strings of random characters of user-defined length.
The single required parameter is a non-zero integer specifying the length of strings to generate.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-a \ \fIALPHA\fR,\  \-\-alphabet =\fIALPHA\fR
Customize the alphabet used to generate random strings.
The default is:
.IP
.B abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyzABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ0123456789
.TP
.BR \-c \ \fICOUNT\fR,\  \-\-count =\fICOUNT\fR
Output the given number of random strings instead of the default of
.BR 1 .
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print the help screen and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B rando -c \fI6 32\fP
Generate six 32-character strings using the default alphabet.
.TP
.B rando -a \fIabcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz0123456789$?@ 32\fP
Generate a 32-character string using a custom alphabet.
.SH EXIT STATUS
Zero on success, non-zero on errors.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr:
.TP
LENGTH must be provided.
The value for the required parameter
.I LENGTH
was missing.
.TP
LENGTH is too large.
The value for the required parameter
.I LENGTH
must be in the range [0, 2**32-1].
.TP
ALPHA must be non-zero length string.
The value for the required argument
.I ALPHA
of the
.B \-a
option must have at least one character.
.TP
ALPHA characters must be printable ASCII.
One of of the given chacters of
.I ALPHA
was not a 7-bit ASCII value.
.TP
COUNT is too large.
The value for the required agument
.I COUNT
of the
.B \-c
option must be in the range [0, 2**32-1].
.SH AUTHOR
Kevin Birch <kmb at pobox dot com>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR random (3)
